# Fantastic Ingredients & Where To Find Them

Sometimes you don't need a full recipe to make great food, just knowing one
show stopping ingredient that can revolutionise a meal.

Here are some of the ingredients that have blown me away, either on their own
or when they turn up somewhere unexpected.

## Tamarind

I'd never heard of tamarind until I was working through a cookbook in order of
country of origin and found it featured heavily in Afghan dishes.  It was a big
book.  Didn't get beyond "B" to be honest. Turns out when a country features
heavily in the book you get a week of eating the same thing.  One of the
countries beginning with "A" was heavy on the stews and casseroles.  I don't
like stew.

But anyway tamarind... It's got a wonderfully mellow sweet and savoury flavour.
On on the Afghan dishes was simply potatoes cooked in tamarind sauce made by
frying some onions then adding stock, spices, & tamarind paste.

Tamarind paste is a great addition to curries or sauces that can add an
unexpected twist.

Idea: tamarind paste added to pie filling?

Where to find it: after searching high and low in every organic shop in
Islington I eventually resorted to ordering this online.  A week later I found
it in Sainsbury's.

## Celery - The Flavour Stabilizer

You'll notice a common ingredient of vegetable soups is almost always celery.
I'd always considered celery as this "nothing ingredient" that didn't add
anything.

But now I've found I'm adding celery to more and more.  It doesn't have much of
a distinct flavour on it's own but added to soup, stew, or even stir fry, it
adds a freshness and helps meld the other flavours into each other, taking away
the sharp edges. I've now always got some celery knocking around in my fridge.
A staple.

TODO: Test tip about limp celery in water.

## Silken Tofu

"Tofu is horrible".  I'm with you on that for plain old regular tofu you get.
Regular tofu is like boiled chicken.  It needs the flavour adding to it.
Which, to be fair, if you consider the effort that goes into seasoning meat, if
the same level of devotion went into seasoning tofu it would probably be
alright. There are some really great tofus you can get where the seasoning has
already been done.  There's this extra firm smoked tofu I get that's perfect in
a breakfast bap.  I fry slices of it up with some mushrooms them pop them in a
toasted pitta with sriracha.

Anyway, silken tofu.  It's a completely different beast than regular tofu.  It
disintegrates in your fingers and has a real creamy and smooth texture.  It's
great for thickening up sauces and curries, and adds a great texture.  I once
made these deep fried dumplings filled with silken tofu, leek and spices.  They
were great, but trying to deep fry something in a pan on your hob can get
pretty hairy. I heated the oil up too hot and when I put the first dumpling it
it was like dropping potassium in water!

## Smoked Garlic

I don't know how I've gone through life, not discovering this was a thing until
quite recently.  It's like the two best flavours rolled into one.  Highly
recommend.

The smoking process leaves them a bit squidgy compared with a regular garlic
clove, so don't think it's gone off or anything.

## Truffle Oil

If you see truffle oil crisps in a shop: buy them, eat them. They are possibly
the tastiest thing on the planet.

Truffle oil is fantastic on roast potatoes, and anywhere else you want to
infuse the flavour with the nectar of the gods.

It is a very strong flavour mind.  Anything it is added to is then forever know
by the prefix "truffle oil".

## Lemongrass

I don't really know what the flavour of lemongrass is.  But I do know when I
add it to things, it makes them taste great.  I wish I could be more precise
about what it's good for, but I don't really know.  Try putting it on
everything I guess.

## Carrot Tops

These get cut off the carrots that get sold to you in the supermarkets.  But
IRL, carrots come with these big green things popping out the top of them...
And they're edible and they're delicious.

I've come across them recently by getting carrots via a local growers' veg
delivery service.  They're great in salads, as a garnish, or anywhere else that
you might put fresh herbs.

## Frozen Ginger

I never get through a whole ginger root before it starts to go mouldy. Once the
root has stopped being nice and fresh: cut it into cubes and freeze it.

## Soy Sauce on Pizza

Wat? I shit you not.  This takes pizza into the next dimension.  Don't believe
me?  Try it on a slice.

## Tabasco on Pastry

Tabasco rears its head in all sorts of weird places: in drinks, on oysters, and
here's another one: on savoury pastry.

Once you've dripped Tabasco down the back of a sausage roll you'll never look
back.

## Oyster Mushrooms

There's as many mushrooms in the world as there are people... or something like
that.  Anyway, of all the mushrooms you can find, oyster mushrooms are among
the best.  They've got a real tough texture and a strong flavour.

In general I'd say wherever you might use regular old closed cup button
mushrooms, try using oyster mushrooms instead.

A great way to eat them is to batter them with panko breadcrumbs and cook them
in the oven, then have a hoisin sauce or soy sauce to dip them in.

More generally, you can get packs of "wild mushrooms" with all sorts of exotic
mushrooms in.  Substituting regular old mushrooms for these fancy once can
bring a whole new world of flavour to your dishes.

## Freekeh

So quinoa was a revolution.  Back in the days when it was pronounced
"quinn-oh-ah" by the middle class mums idling down Waitrose isles.  Later we
find out a surge in demand in the developed world has caused a scarcity for
those who depended on it as a staple food.

Freekeh is in that revolutionary stage.  We probably all pronounce it wrong,
and some point later we'll hear about the problems our sudden increase in
demand for a food that's been an eastern Mediterranean staple for millennia.
But for now we can go to a fancy store and pay a ridiculous price for a tiny
amount of it and revel in the fact we're eating the grain that the most in
vogue.

It is bloody delicious though.  Well worth a try.  Prepare it with a few
tomatoes, celery, peppers, feta cheese (or alternative), with a healthy amount
of olive oil poured over and you've got yourself a pretty sound meal.

## Pearl Barley

If you don't care about following the latest trends.  If you want a hearty
grain that's packed full of flavour. Look no further than pearl barley.

If you're looking to cut down on pasta, as it can be quite bloating, replace
the pasta in any pasta dish with pearl barley.  Pearl barley bolognese!

It's also a great bed to serve your protein on.  And a fantastic base for a
salad.

It can really pack a punch when added to winter stews and casseroles.

I've been know to eat it on its own.

