# Fava Bean Arrabiata

We've all done it: been browsing through the supermarket and spotted some food
with a strange name and remembered hearing about it being a great food for some
health benefit, but you can't remember what, so bought a tin or pack, got home
and had no idea what to do with it, so let it sit at the back of the cupboard
for the rest of time. One day you spot it, have a go including it in a meal,
and it's disgusting. When you look up the name, it turns out the fancy name is
an alternative name for something more recognisable. "Edamame" springs to mind.
Turns out they're just soy beans.  So: cattle feed.  Excellent.  Still
delicious but a bit less glamorous with that realisation.

This was my experience with a pack of "split fava beans".  When I first
attempted to cook them they were bland and horrible, it was like trying to eat
wet sand.  Looking them up, it turns out they're also known as "broad beans".

I've recently be having a bit of a kitchen clear out and trying to "eat the
cupboards".  This pack of split fava beans had its turn.  With the previous
attempt of cooking them a not too distant memory, I had a real go at making
these fava beans taste nice.  I was pretty happy with what came out, and it fit
this book's mantra of "novel combinations", so here it is.

## The Core

Combine the fava beans with pearl barley and simmer in a pan of water with some
stock mixed in. Between the two of them they absorb a fair amount of water so
you'll likely need to add more as it cooks. 30-40 minutes should do it.

Meanwhile, make an arrabiata sauce by frying some onions and garlic until the
onions are soft, adding in some tinned tomatoes, herbs of your choice, and some
chilli (fresh, flakes, or chilli sauce - take your pick).

Drain the barley and fava mix and serve the sauce over the top of them.

## Flourishes

To the sauce you can add a protein of your choice.  I put in some dried soy
pieces myself.  They come out as these little balls that are much tougher than
tofu, so have a decent bite to them.  They're also ridiculously cheap.

With such a simple sauce, the rest comes down to what herbs you pick to add in.
You can't go wrong with an "Italian Herb Mix", or "Herb de Provence", but I
prefer to pick just one or two herbs and have them stand out.  You can always
look at the ingredients of a herb mix and pick one to try on its own.

## TL;DR

- Boil fava beans and barley in stock:
  + 30-40 mins,
  + Add water as you go.
- For the sauce:
  + fry onions and garlic,
  + once golden, add:
    * tinned tomatoes,
    * chilli,
    * herb(s),
- Optional: add a protein to the sauce.

