# Not A V\*\*\*\* Cookbook

Let me start by saying that I will not be using “the V word” anywhere in this
book, and it is not a “V word cookbook” but a collection of some cooking
wisdoms that I’ve gathered over the past few year as part of being “one of
those”, having to unlearn and relearn a food culture, picking up some novel
combinations on the way.  This book will look to share some of those novel
combinations to incorporate into your cooking either as sides, starters, or
full mains with the protein of your choice substituted in.

# My Cooking Philosophy

My approach to cooking has always been focussed around simplicity which permits
imprecision.  I've never been that into preparing big set pieces with thousands
of ingredients or anything that requires measuring or a precise process.
Needless to say I avoid baking at all costs (and I don't really like sweet
things.  I'll take a 2nd main over a pudding any day).

While this approach was likely born out of laziness rather than an appreciation
of the subtlety and simplicity of individual flavours, I'd like to think that's
where I've ended up. I now find myself stripping away ingredients from a dish
to find and appreciate the core flavours on their own.  Restaurant food
especially, is made in a way to convince you it was worth the money you paid
for it, so it has all the extra flourishes thrown in the hope that someone
doesn't think "that's easy, I could do that!".  So while driven somewhat by the
ulterior motive of laziness, I have gone through a process of stripping meals
down to their bare necessities, only chucking flourishes back in when I've
got the core solid.

Pizza and pasta are great examples of this core simplicity.  In the past I
would always get the pizza with the most ingredients on (because "clearly"
that's the best). But what really makes a pizza great?  It's the tomato sauce
and the base.  Tomato sauce is so simple: olive oil, tomato, basil.  But having
a great sauce with those ingredients combined in just the right way, and in
this case the tomatoes being really good tomatoes, makes all the difference.
The base too.  A really great sourdough pizza base and I'd be happy with
nothing on it, save a drizzle of olive oil.  These days, if I go to a pub or
restaurant and I reckon they know what they're doing, I'll order the simplest
pizza they do. Take pasta arribata or pasta pomodoro.  They're both just pasta
with tomato sauce and chilli or basil. In a good Italian restaurant it's the
best thing on the menu.  That being said, in a mediocre Italian restaurant it's
just pasta with a tin of tomatoes slopped over it, so you've gotta try to take
the temperature of the place before ordering.

# This Book

I don't like cookbooks.  I tolerate them, but I always find myself scrawling
some rough notes and working from them.  One of the things they seem to never
be able to convey is what the core of the recipe is that makes it what it is.
Following a recipe in a cookbook, it's never clear to me what the stakes are
for deviating from the precise ingredients and process.  If I realise I forgot
an ingredient half way through cooking: is the meal ruined? Do I bail out and
start again?  Do I try to compensate? Or do I do nothing?  Was the ingredient
just a arbitrary flourish that made no difference to the overall meal
whatsoever, but included to make you spend hours searching a supermarket for
cilantro, only to find out it's fucking coriander... and not even important to
the dish. I then find that I stop following cookbooks' instructions, because
I grow tired of them and start guessing proportions.  This is normally
fine, until it comes to things like soy sauce, or ginger, when too much can destroy
a meal.

So in this book I'll aim to call out what the core of the recipe is, then add
suggestions of flourishes, while staying away from being too precise about
process or proportions, unless it really matters.  I'll finish each recipe with
a TL;DR to serve as a quick reference while cooking.
