# Preface

My approach to cooking has always been focussed around simplicity which permits
imprecision.  I've never been that into preparing big set pieces with thousands
of ingredients or anything that requires measuring or a precise process.
Needless to say I avoid baking at all costs (and I don't really like sweet
things.  I'll take a 2nd main over a pudding any day).

While this approach was likely born out of laziness rather than an appreciation
of the subtlety and simplicity of individual flavours, I'd like to think that's
where I've ended up. I now find myself stripping away ingredients from a dish
to find and appreciate the core flavours on their own.  Restaurant food
especially, is made in a way to convince you it was worth the money you paid
for it, so it has all the extra flourishes thrown in the hope that someone
doesn't think "that's easy, I could do that!".  So while driven somewhat by the
ulterior motive of laziness, I have gone through a process of stripping meals
down to their bare necessities, only chucking flourishes back in when I've got
the core solid.

Pizza and pasta are great examples of this core simplicity.  In the past I
would always get the pizza with the most ingredients on (because "clearly"
that's the best). But what really makes a pizza great?  It's the tomato sauce
and the base.  Tomato sauce is so simple: olive oil, tomato, basil.  But having
a great sauce with those ingredients combined in just the right way, and in
this case the tomatoes being really good tomatoes, makes all the difference.
The base too.  A really great sourdough pizza base and I'd be happy with
nothing on it, save a drizzle of olive oil.  These days, if I go to a pub or
restaurant and I reckon they know what they're doing, I'll order the simplest
pizza they do. Take pasta arrabiata or pasta pomodoro.  They're both just pasta
with tomato sauce and chilli or basil. In a good Italian restaurant it's the
best thing on the menu.  That being said, in a mediocre Italian restaurant it's
just pasta with a tin of tomatoes slopped over it, so you've gotta try to take
the temperature of the place before ordering.
