# Raw Food Dinners

What's that?  Well, it's exactly what it says on the tin: chop up a bunch of
raw vegetables in a load of funky ways, place them all in the middle of the
table, gather round and tuck in!

## But Why?

It's a good question.  Why does a cookbook have a page dedicated to not cooking
anything? Why bother cooking when we can just eat raw food? I wonder about that
sometimes. A couple of years ago I had a phase of doing a raw food dinner once
in every few weeks.

The main reason for me was to strip food back to it's raw flavours and textures
and just appreciate them.

It's a very refreshing meal, partly due to it being a change from the usual,
and simply due to the high water content of raw vegetables.

Most of the things you hear in the way of "nutritional science" tend to come
from sources that... aren't science. So take this with a pinch of salt, but
apparently, certain nutrients get denatured when we cook food and we miss out
on their benefits.  I suppose that conversely there are other nutrients that
only cooking can "unlock", such as turning starch into carbohydrates and
sugars.  Cooking is on aggregate an endothermic reaction, so if you were going
to cook or not cook all of your food, I'd guess the latter would have the
higher nutritional value on aggregate. But that's not to say there isn't some
nutrients that raw veg presents a better source for.  My general take on
nutrition is "don't worry about it".  If you get ill and a doctor tells you to
worry about a specific one, worry about that specific one, otherwise don't
worry about it.  With one exception: I keep half an eye on my B12, given I only
eat plants.

_I've been careful to use the word "nutrient" as a general term for "something
your body might need at some point", rather than go down the path of talking
about "vitamins and minerals", whatever they are._

We could go on making vacuous platitudes about nutrition, or we could recognise
there's some far more valid reasons to crack on with a raw food dinner.  Such
as:

- Clean out your fridge,
- Realising you were a bit trigger happy when ordering the now apparently
  gargantuan veg delivery that's just been dropped off and won't fit in your
  fridge or cupboards, or even
- Wanting to sympathise with gorillas.  To truly understand our simian cousins
  we must first graze as they do!

## The Core

For me, the core of this is to get a good variety of veg and try chopping up
each in different ways to see how that can affect the texture.

## Suggestions

A side from all the familiar faces from salads we know: lettuce, tomato, sugar
snap peas, radishes, avocado, cucumber, celery, there are some others that
might be more of a novelty to eat raw.

### Spiralize The Phallic Veg

You can get a hand held veg spiralized off the internet for around Â£10, and
they're effectively a pencil sharpener for vegetables.

The effect of long spaghetti-fied strips of vegetable is the surface area to
volume ratio radically increases.  This dramatically changes the relationship
between texture and flavour and allows other flavours to meld in.

Carrot is the veg I've found most transformed by being spiralized/shredded.
Chunks of raw carrot: dull, too much hard word.  Shredded carrot: amazing!

### Courgette

While courgettes are the champion veg for spiralizing I also really like the
texture of very thin circular slices.

### Cabbage

Red cabbage has a bit more flavour.  I generally really hate limp floppy cooked
cabbage, especially when the flavour has been steamed or boiled out of it.  Raw
cabbage chopped into thin slices is a totally different thing.  It's crisp and
sharp and delicious.

### Mushrooms

I didn't even know you could eat mushrooms raw 'til a couple of years ago. But
it turns out you can and they've got a completely different texture.

### Potato

Apparently this isn't very good for you because we can't digest it properly,
but I absolutely love the taste of raw potatoes.  So maybe just chop up one
baby potato to taste a few slices.

## Cheat A Bit - Flavour It Up

I'll admit, only raw veg for dinner is hard core. When I do this I tend to wash
it down with a pot of hummus, some olive oil, balsamic vinegar, soy sauce, and
perhaps some nut butter.

And of course, wine.

## TL;DR

- Chop up raw veg,
- Eat.

