# Sticky Umami Protein & Pineapple

Forget all that rubbish in the intro about appreciating the subtlety of
individual flavours by reducing the noise around them!  This unapologetically
bombastic big hitter, doesn't just pack a punch, it comes in like a wrecking
ball packing five.  Five huge flavours, in proportions that would overwhelm any
other dish, combine into guaranteed party pleaser.  What's more, it's so easy!

## The Core

First: pick your protein and chop it into cubes.  I've found this works well
with seitan, but I've also done this with microprotein "This Isn't Chicken"
pieces.  Anything "white" in the meaty sense will do.  Next prepare your
pineapple into thumbnail sized cubes (any bigger and they don't absorb the
sauce as well).  I tend to find one round slice of pineapple per person does
the job.

Start by putting on some rice to boil as the rest cooks rather quickly. I've
found plain brown rice to be best as the rest of the dish has enough flavour
and you find yourself wanting something plain to eat it with.

Fry your protein in an oil of your choosing (I tend to go with dandelion oil,
but I appreciate that's a bit niche) so it's cooked and starting to crisp.

Next add in the sauce and the pineapple cubes.  For the sauce we combine:
balsamic vinegar, soy sauce, English mustard (the bright yellow one) and maple
syrup.  A good dollop of mustard with a table spoon, then an equivalent amount
of both soy sauce and balsamic vinegar.  The trick is to be relatively liberal
with the maple syrup as you need enough of it to reduce around the chunks and
go sticky.  As a rough guide, three times the amount of each other ingredient
is about right. You can proportionally increase all the ingredients of the
sauce to make a more intense flavour, but make sure to keep that proportion of
maple syrup high.

Once this is all simmering away in the pan, turn up the heat and reduce the
sauce into a sticky coating for your chunks.

Once that's ready serve on top of the rice.

## To Onion Or Not To Onion - That Is The Question

I've tried alternating onions in and out of this dish. Frying onions with the
protein has the effect of mellowing the flavours slightly.  And I mean
"slightly", the dish doesn't suddenly become meditatively subtle.  I'd say try
onions on a later run of this dish, after having experienced it without them.
My current preference is without, but it's worth a try.  Shallots, if you can
be bothered to peal them, add that flavour with less of a mellowing effect.

## Flourishes

Given the strength of the core of this dish, there's a lot of scope for some
fairly consequence free experimenting with added extras to add some new
dimensions. If you're making this for the first time, I'd say don't worry about
any of these.

### Rosemary

A healthy sprinkle of rosemary while adding the sauce can help to support the
mustard by providing another avenue for the flavour to go up your nose.

### Coconut Rice

If five BIG flavours aren't enough for you, you can add one more and cook the
rice in coconut milk.

Be aware this is a big sweet hit being added to the meal and you may want to
turn up the balsamic vinegar and turn down the maple syrup and perhaps swap it
for a more toned down agave syrup.

Something nice and bitter to drink like a gin and tonic can help wash this
sweeter dish down.

### Chilli Flakes

This isn't supposed to be a spicy dish, and I'm not sure that adding a load of
spice would really complement the rest of the flavours.  But from time to time
I put a pinch or light sprinkle of chilli flakes in to give some variation in
the after taste.

## TL;DR

- Fry your protein,
- Thrown in pineapple cubes & the sauce:
  + 3 parts maple syrup,
  + 1 part balsamic vinegar,
  + 1 part soy sauce,
  + 1 part (a dollop) English mustard.
- Reduce to preference,
- Serve on rice.

